arXiv script is a program written in the [http://www.python.org/ python] programming language that accesses information on papers from the [http://www.arxiv.org/ arXiv].  It can access title, author, abstract, comments and journal reference records.  It can also download the paper's PDF, PS or source.  Although originally written for the GNU/Linux command line, the code should be portable enough to run on any operating system with a python interpreter.

===download===
Download [[Arxiv.py|arxiv.py]].

===installation on a GNU/Linux system===
The script requires the python interpreter to be installed on your system.  This is automatically installed on most GNU/Linux distributions, but check it is there by typing
<pre>
python
</pre>
at the command line and see what happens.

If python is present download [[Arxiv.py|arxiv.py]] and run it by typing
<pre>
python arxiv.py hep-th/9711200
</pre>

===usage===
The only accepted inputs are the usual arXiv references
<pre>
python arxiv.py hep-th/9711200
python arxiv.py 0705.0303
</pre>

If no options are specified all possible outputs will be displayed
<pre>
tom@fyodor:~$ python arxiv.py hep-th/9711200
tom@tarkovsky:~/programming$ python arxiv.py hep-th/9711200
The Large N Limit of Superconformal Field Theories and Supergravity
Juan M. Maldacena
We show that the large $N$ limit of certain conformal field theories in
various dimensions include in their Hilbert space a sector describing
supergravity on the product of Anti-deSitter spacetimes, spheres and other
compact manifolds. This is shown by taking some branes in the full M/string
theory and then taking a low energy limit where the field theory on the brane
decouples from the bulk. We observe that, in this limit, we can still trust the
near horizon geometry for large $N$. The enhanced supersymmetries of the near
horizon geometry correspond to the extra supersymmetry generators present in
the superconformal group (as opposed to just the super-Poincare group). The 't
Hooft limit of 4-d ${\cal N} =4$ super-Yang-Mills at the conformal point is
shown to contain strings: they are IIB strings. We conjecture that
compactifications of M/string theory on various Anti-deSitter spacetimes are
dual to various conformal field theories. This leads to a new proposal for a
definition of M-theory which could be extended to include five non-compact
dimensions.
20 pages, harvmac, v2: section on AdS_2 corrected, references added, v3: More references and a sign in eqns 2.8 and 2.9 corrected
Adv.Theor.Math.Phys. 2 (1998) 231-252; Int.J.Theor.Phys. 38 (1999) 1113-1133
</pre>

To see all the options access the help page
<pre>
tom@fyodor:~$ python arxiv.py -h
arXiv script
Usage:
python arxiv.py reference [ -htabcjdps ] [ --help ]
"reference" must be a standard arXiv reference, e.g. hep-th/9711200, 0705.0303.
Options:
-h, --help
displays this help message
-t
displays the title
-a
displays the author(s)
-b
displays the aBstract
-c
displays the comments
-j
displays the journal reference
-d
downloads the PDF
-p
downloads the PS
-s
downloads the source file

</pre>

Each item can be specified individually with switches, e.g. -t for title, -a for authors, -b for aBstract, -c for comments.  For example
<pre>
tom@fyodor:~$ python arxiv.py hep-th/9711200 -ta
The Large N Limit of Superconformal Field Theories and Supergravity
Juan M. Maldacena
</pre>

===technical details===
The code is very modular so it is easy to write your own programs using the functions defined in arxiv.py.  Just import the functions in arxiv.py with <code>import arxiv</code>.

===comments and bugs===
If you have any comments or find bugs, please contact [[User:Tom|Tom]].

===licence===
This script is Copyright 2008 Tom Brown and made available under the [http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html GNU General Public Licence].

